Oded Brenner has a great job. He makes chocolate.

奥德·布伦纳有一份很好的工作。他是做巧克力的。

In the 1990s, he co-created an international chocolate company called Max Brenner Chocolate. His businesses included a 650-square-meter store on Broadway in New York City.

在20世纪90年代，他与人共同创建了一家名为Max Brenner巧克力的国际巧克力公司。他的生意包括在纽约市百老汇的一家650平方米的商店。

Then in 2012, Brenner left that business. A few years later, he began exploring a different side of chocolate. In 2015, during a trip to Jamaica, he developed a love and excitement for the fruit that produces chocolate: cacao.

然后在2012年，布伦纳离开了这个行业。几年后，他开始探索巧克力的另一面。2015年，在一次牙买加之旅中，他爱上了巧克力的原材料：可可果。

The Jamaican people taught him a lot about cacao -- namely, it is more than just chocolate. Brenner saw Jamaican people making juice, liquor, and flour from the cacao fruit. And they used the whole fruit - not just the beans.

牙买加人民教会了他很多关于可可的知识——也就是说，它不仅仅是巧克力。布伦纳看到牙买加人用可可果制作果汁、白酒和面粉。他们使用了整个果实，而不仅仅是豆子。

Brenner told the Associated Press that although he had worked with chocolate for 20 years, he knew little about cacao.

布伦纳在接受美联社采访时表示，尽管他从事巧克力工作已有20年，但他对可可知之甚少。

It is the most unknown fruit behind the most known fruit, Brenner said.

布伦纳说:“它是最知名水果背后最不为人知的水果。”

While the fruit might have been unknown to him, it is not unknown to the people of Jamaica and other countries like Ecuador.

虽然他可能不知道这种水果，但牙买加和厄瓜多尔等其他国家的人并非如此。

The Ecuadorian people also taught Brenner how to use cacao. In Ecuador, he saw people drink cacao water and eat the dried fruit of the pods. You can eat the whole fruit, he learned. But in making traditional chocolate, he added, "all of the other parts of the fruit are wasted."

厄瓜多尔人还教布伦纳如何使用可可。在厄瓜多尔，他看到人们饮用可可水，吃可可豆干果。整个可可果的所有部分都可以吃，他学会了。但他补充说，在制作传统巧克力时，“水果的所有其他部分都被浪费了。”

The fruit is a little sweet and a little sour. The cacao water is described as refreshing. The seed inside is the cacao bean. This is the part that is processed to make chocolate.

这种水果有点甜，有点酸。可可水被描述为沁人心脾。里面的种子就是可可豆。就是被加工成巧克力的部分。

With his new business and his new knowledge, Brenner said he wants to tell both sides of the chocolate story. So, he has created new products that celebrate the traditional side of chocolate-making and the natural taste of the cacao fruit.

布伦纳说，凭借他的新业务和新知识，他想讲述巧克力故事的两面。因此，他研发了新的产品来庆祝制作巧克力的传统工艺和可可果的天然味道。

Health experts have long noted the possible good effects that chocolate can have on health. The T.H. Chan Harvard School of Public Health says on its website that the dark chocolate produced from cacao has many necessary nutrients. These include iron, copper, magnesium, zinc, phosphorus, and substances called flavanols.

健康专家早就注意到巧克力可能对健康有好处。哈佛公共卫生学院T.H. Chan在其网站上表示，由可可制成的黑巧克力含有许多必要的营养物质。其中包括铁、铜、镁、锌、磷，以及被称为黄烷醇的物质。

Brenner said the unsweetened fruit has other nutrients as well. Cacao is high in antioxidants. And the water is full of natural chemicals called electrolytes. These are substances needed in the body's fluids to control important processes including how your body uses vitamins and minerals and removes waste.

布伦纳说，这种不加糖的水果还含有其他营养成分。可可富含抗氧化剂。可可水里充满了被称为电解质的天然化学物质。这些是人类体液中控制重要过程所需的物质，包括身体如何使用维生素和矿物质以及清除废物。

In addition to health, Brenner said that the cacao he uses for his products is farmed in a way that is not harmful to the environment. And it is also fair to the farmers.

除了健康之外，布伦纳说，他用来制作产品的可可是用对环境无害的方式种植的。这对农民来说也是公平的。

I'm Anna Matteo.

安娜·马特奥报道。